./"    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
./"    it.
./"
./"    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
./"    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
./"    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
./"
.Dd Mar 28, 2020
.Dt MULLOC 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mullinit ,
.Nm mulloc ,
.Nm mullfree ,
.Nm freeall
.Nd memory allocation
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In mull.h
.Ft int
.Fo mullinit
.Fa "size_t size"
.Fa "int count"
.Fc
.Ft void *
.Fo mulloc
.Fa "int SlabID"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo mullfree
.Fa "void * restrict ptr"
.Fa "int SlabID"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo freeall
.Fa "int SlabID"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn mullinit
function initializes the allocator for a particular slab type. The
.Fn mulloc
function allocates memory for 1 slab of a given type. The
.Fn mullfree
function frees a slab that was created via
.Fn mulloc .
.Pp
The
.Fn mullinit
function initializes a slab type whose size in bytes is specified by
.Fa size
and also pre-allocates
.Fa count
slabs if
.Fa count
is greater than zero. It returns
an integer greater than 0 unique to the slab type.
.Pp
The
.Fn mulloc
function allocates memory for 1 slab of type determined by the argument
.Fa SlabID
which is obtained by a call to
.Fn mullinit .
.Pp
The
.Fn mullfree
function frees the memory pointed to by
.Fa ptr .
If
.Fa ptr
is NULL, then nothing is done. The
.Fa SlabID
argument can be used to specify the slab type for which the memory pointed to by
.Fa ptr
was used. A value less than 0 can be given if unknown.
.Pp
The
.Fn freeall
function frees all the slabs allocated to the
.Fa SlabID .
If a negative value is passed for
.Fa SlabID
, it is the same as calling this function seperately for all SlabIDs in existance.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
If successful the
.Fn mullinit
function return a positive integer which is a unique identifier to that slab type.
If there is an error, it returns -1.
.Pp
The
.Fn mulloc
function returns a pointer to the allocated slab. If an error occurs,
NULL is returned and ERRNO is set to ENOMEM.
.Pp
The
.Fn mullfree
and
.Fn freeall
functions do not return anything.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr malloc 3 ,
.Xr calloc 3 ,
.Xr free 3
